# Step 1

NGRX is used to maintain a state in out application. The documentation is available [here](https://ngrx.io/docs).

In a nutshell there are several packages :
- [store](https://ngrx.io/guide/store): base package for ngrx global state management
- [effects](https://ngrx.io/guide/effects): package to handle side effects
- [router-store](https://ngrx.io/guide/router-store): utility package to connect angular navigation to the store
- [entity](https://ngrx.io/guide/entity): utility package for managing collection of entities
- [component-store](https://ngrx.io/guide/component-store): base package for ngrx local state management

The overview documentation for all those packages is well-documented.

To debug data install the chrome ReduxDevtools package

## RootStore

First we need to have a root store. This will declare all the basic modules & providers to make ngrx work. To do so there is a nx generator: `@nx/angular:ngrx-root-store`

> Use the nx command to generate a root store for the frontend project with devtools enabled

<details>
  <summary>View solution</summary>

  ```shell
  yarn nx g @nx/angular:ngrx-root-store --project=frontend --addDevTools=true
  ```
</details>

### Explanations

This will add required dependencies to package.json and add 3 new providers to the [app.config](/apps/frontend/src/app/app.config.ts):
- one for the store itself -> `provideStore`
- one for the effects (we will talk about it later) -> `provideEffects`
- one for devtools -> `provideDevTools`

If you check the devtools you should see 2 actions getting trigger for initing the store.

**Take care that the provideDevTools is put in last (order matter).**

## FeatureStore

Now that our application is ngrx aware we need to add a ngrx feature. To do so there is another nx generator: `@nx/angular-feature-store`

> Use the nx command to generate a feature store for the products-data-access lib. Make sure you tick the `facade` checkbox.
<details>
  <summary>View solution</summary>

  ```shell
  yarn nx g @nx/angular:ngrx-feature-store --name=products --parent=libs/products/data-access/src/lib/products-data-access.module.ts --facade=true
  ```
</details>


This will update the module and create a `+state` folder which contains all data definition for our products state.

### Bug with the nx feature generator
Since this project was made in standalone mode, the current nx generator is not working as expected. You need to change the products-data-access module definition like this :
```typescript
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { provideEffects } from '@ngrx/effects';
import { provideState } from '@ngrx/store';
import { ProductsEffects } from './+state/products.effects';
import { ProductsFacade } from './+state/products.facade';
import * as fromProducts from './+state/products.reducer';
import { ProductsService } from './services';

@NgModule({
  providers: [
    provideState(
      fromProducts.PRODUCTS_FEATURE_KEY,
      fromProducts.productsReducer
    ),
    provideEffects([ProductsEffects]),
    ProductsService,
    ProductsFacade
  ],
})
export class ProductsDataAccessModule {}
```

### Explanations

If you looked the ngrx documentation, you've seen that ngrx work around an Action -> Reducer -> Selector pattern.

- Action: will trigger store mutation / side effects
- Reducer: will react to Action and do store mutation
- Selector: is an observable view of the store (automatically emit when corresponding data from store changes)

## Update the store for our needs

By default the nx generator will use the `@ngrx/entity` format. That mean there is now a `[feature].models.ts` file which contains a default entity definition. If you pay attention to the reducer file you will also see some functions coming from the `@ngrx/entity` aswell.

Since we already have a model definition we will use the one from the shared library.
> Either update the model to inherit the one from the shared library and remove all it's attribute or replace all `ProductsEntity` usage with our `Product` model

<details>
  <summary>View solution</summary>

  ```typescript
  import { Product } from '@workshop/shared';

  /**
   * Interface for the 'Products' data
   */
  export type ProductsEntity = Product

  ```
</details>

> Don't forget to fix the test, since the `id` property of the ProductsEntity is now a number instead of string.

# End

In the [next step](./2.MD) we will create actions to start using the store.
